[Music]
jontron
Black Friday approaches and that means
one thing
grandma's out getting trampled just to
get you the same old gift crappy video
games oh you got me monopoly this year
for the Nintendo 64 well this would have
been great back in 1864 you know when it
was impressive just to not die from
being 35
we all got games like this you know the
ones bottom of the bin that literally
bottom of the bit at the grocery store
but in this category one genre reigned
supreme the plug and play games you know
one of these why buy your loved ones a
$50 spongebob game for their way in
which you have to you know put the disc
in and figure out which chords plug in
from the box machine into the TV and
then you gotta make me like switch it on
it who knows what else from there went
for $20 you can get them the magical
device that plugs right into their TV
already has the game inside of it and
there's also a toy of SpongeBob's face
that's like one it's like 18 toys in one
now plug and play games have been around
for decades but they're true rise to
popularity began in the early 2000s led
by a company called Jack's Pacific
remember this was before downloadable
content in Virtual Console re-releases
were widespread the most you'd see were
those gv8 ports of nes game so at the
time it made sense of course people were
gonna be like you telling me there were
10 classic Namco video games in this one
small box that looks like a tiny version
of the bigger box that used to be in
well sign me in the rest of America we
got a couple of years for the housing
crisis let's have some fun so basically
what started as an innocent way to port
some classic video games in a novel way
spiraled into a massive business I mean
these things were everywhere look at the
ones I have these two are both classic
Namco Games pretty cool pretty cool
standard stuff there's a lot of these in
the Marvel Super Heroes series this
one's on spider-man I guess hey Spidey
you think you could you know back off a
bit you know the saying a watched man
never plays a lot of these are just a
penis this one is this one is
spider-man's penis
bombs away this one is a Fantastic Four
is creepy Gollum penis okay this is good
is this bad I'm sorry man I kind of have
to do this oh my goodness that's a bit
barbaric isn't it poor bastard
weird gross oh this is that that's the
Shrek one this one is my personal
favorite spider-man points at your dick
while you play
you can't make that up that's really how
they design this what the hell were they
thinking deal a No Deal
No Deal Scooby's really going to town on
the back of the Mystery Machine here and
Friends like Scoob no it's a kids show
don't I mean to be honest most of the
games aren't horrible the scooby-doo
ones pretty appealing the graphics are
nice even the Marvel ones aren't bad
they're basically side-scrolling beat'em
ups although I assume anyone would get
tired of these before long but don't get
me wrong there are the bad ones like the
one where you plunder a sewer for the
lizard forever and ever oh there he is
wonderful
Shrek golf I asked for this but of
course as to be expected any good bad
comes with its fair share of bootlegs I
mean why don't you just go ask our good
friend Robert cop over here
oh and of course don't forget everyone's
favorite crime-fighting alliance sense
of right
everyone's here Batman Superman Shrek a
car Oh
what I'm saying is it didn't take long
for counterfeiters to hop on the
plug-and-play gravy train ladies and
gentlemen I present to you a but are you
sitting King Philip perfect for children
with no necks finally a game system for
me digital stereo sound high-tech
controller dazzling 3d graphics and
spectacular color and a top it off 88
games in one what can I say I'm sold
wait hon 8-bit game I thought you said
it was dazzling 3d graphics Philip make
up your goddamn mind this thing has the
audacity to promote as a selling point
that it comes with AV cables yeah I
don't even get me started on the
previous version
[Music]
I can make this work not right enough
about the box let's talk about what's
actually on this thing okay spider-man I
know that this ought to be good oh it
actually is kind of good but it's just a
part of the NES title in fact this whole
thing is just NES ports with
mistranslated titles six three four ten
yeah never heard of that one is a real
winner small Mario hey they were right
that's the smallest Mario I've ever seen
he's so small you can't [__] see him
yeah but these are just ports I'm
looking for something I never seen
before what am I gonna get to the good
stuff maybe I'll find something in the
powered record which according to the
game box is the greatest game machine in
the planet well what are we waiting for
get it out of there start digging this
one claims to have 76,000 games on it
damn if that's true I'll be playing this
for my entire life oh my god there
really are 76,000 I guess so order some
takeout Toy Story yeah one of what this
one's like circus charlie huh yeah no
and I don't remember that from the movie
again this is just a bunch of mislabeled
titles from the NES I mean there's not a
single original game in here what kind
of human being does this I mean why'd
they stop at 76,000 why didn't they just
say a million games a billion infinity
sky's the limit when you don't give a
[__] well I mean why don't we just try
Super Mario I mean at least I know what
I'm getting into
I have several questions mad me I'm not
mad I mean who's mad how could I be mad
when I bought a video game console that
has circus Charlie under 5,000 [__]
different names I'm fine
crack this okay this is it I think this
may be my final chance to find a game
machine that no one has ever seen before
luckily for us I think I saved the best
for last the pro games player you a
games player you want to be a pro then
you're gonna need this sucker
it's got 51 games in one and they all
look original so I'm pretty excited to
see what this has got to offer let's
load it up and see something
life-changing what no no no no no it no
it can't just be any s games again the
back of the box said it had original
games what well there they are
why wait wait wait you're telling me I
have to take out the cartridge to play
the games I think I'm supposed to be
upset right now but more or less I think
I've just on fully numb well we got to
start this off the right way so of
course I'm gonna pick hitting mices you
know this one really stood out to me and
I think they wanted it too mainly
because they printed it twice on the
back of the box Oh
complete with nightmare hit hitting
mices mices what mice wasn't good enough
for you you want to hit more you want to
pluralize the plural so you can hit more
you're a monster in this game you play
as a cave gorilla throwing what seemed
to be what is that bean bags at mice who
are climbing up your wall now you got it
hit those mice is but you want to
cushion the blow you don't want them to
die from one hit you want to stop the
mice before they curl up in these
burrows also it's got this powerup that
makes you move faster and it's
impossible to play without but that's
basically it gameplay wise there's
nothing else to this game alright next
exists yeah I've been trying a good game
poses a philosophical question a
masterpiece does it right in the title
look at that copyright year 2005 one
eight seven eight four man it's gonna be
a while till Fair Use kicks in on this
one no morning
ah it's a fish game yeah definitely got
that from the title this is basically
just feeding frenzy except it's got this
eight second loop of music that's
driving me crazy
now I'm not exaggerating here I timed it
it's eight seconds long come to think of
it this music is probably enjoyable for
one kind of guy a fish with a six second
memory span you know I got a
philosophical question myself why am I
still playing this alright what's next
let's boot up cute fish Oh God
cute fish where is he you mean this guy
I don't think you mean this guy all
right well at least we're past that
horrible title screen I see yes I
certainly do understand what is
happening here
oh oh okay okay yeah cute fish I get it
oh yeah it's come to my attention that a
lot of these games are aquatic themed
this one's called cor adore what a
beautiful name she has too bad she's
gonna lose her pretty face soon cuz
she's going headlong at the goddamn
speed light no a bunch of [__] help
and she's off and by that I mean she
disintegrated she's dead and this is M
Day with an underscore in the title
because that makes sense
also we have danger zone oh let me tell
you about it what was so appealing about
the underwater genre that they had to
make this many of them is it cuz it was
easier to program or was it just because
90% of the backgrounds was just blue
next game water fire okay
yeah seen a lot of the water not so sure
about the fire I've been sitting here
for like 10 minutes and I genuinely
can't figure out how this one works I
think you're supposed to shoot only one
certain color of barrel green or red but
it doesn't matter which one you shoot
the guy on the right always wins
why for what reason we cannot live in a
world of chaos also in regular fashion
the sound will cut out at will
[Music]
and then come back then cut back out and
just like that it's gone like a like an
Angels kiss
next up Xmas gift oh I just know it's
gonna feel like Christmas in here in a
minute but like Santa's on a watch looks
like he's got a couple of them bootleg
eyes up there I wonder what he's seeing
I wonder if he can see hang on a sec is
this game called Xmas gift or gift Xmas
or maybe the title is an equation gift
times mass equals the theory of
happiness now scratch that some dumb
idiot probably just don't get English
one Christmas night evil cloud Center
had a plight his temper was not mild he
threw gifts at every man woman and child
hold on actually at just one child yeah
I'm talking [__] like hamsters bananas
letting screws that cause brain damage
apparently I'm not sure what's happening
here but it can't be good
oh my god Merry Christmas you know at
first I was being harsh but I've come to
realize this game is actually very well
researched it recreates the ancient
German Christmastime tradition Viva
audiences love it's a frying pan and I
took that seat the classes even gifts
from the sky it is a great dish okay
let's get out of here for Santa notices
I don't want to get on this guy's bad
list okay moving on it did dad city
snakes you talking about a dead city of
this city that's just a snake from the
jungle book that's calm they used the
same exact snake except this time it
looks like he peed on the rug and got in
trouble for it bad snake bear you can't
rewrite it I really need to know what's
in this game
it's [__] it's [__] snake city's
[__] [__] yes you know what I am NOT
leaving until somebody tells me where
audacity fits in all this I'll just move
on to the next game I need to get
through this before I get a goddamn
coronary I'm gonna I'm gonna pop monster
is jumped to the next platform the game
baby you don't need to jump you have
your choice of not one but three spiral
staircases back there
you don't gotta risk it it's just this
over and over and the music is just this
over then over this one's called trooper
and oh I think the only trooper I see
here was the title screen itself hang in
buddy was sending backup
in this game everyone is falling to
earth and it's your job to the murderer
mall press why to blink around like a
wizard am I breaking it is this breaking
it please God let's just be breaking it
this type of game seems to be coming up
frequently as well these space invaders
clones it's not really a shmup because
you're not going anywhere things are
just kind of falling at you we got robot
literally the same as trooper Archer you
play as a man who throws arrows with his
bare hands I believe we may be missing
one of the two major ingredients in
archery here perhaps this is how archery
got started up there with exists getting
a bit of philosophy in here a Thor
fighter just another version of trooper
except this time you shoot pineapples
and the final man that's epic he's the
last one except he isn't because there's
at least two or three other men over
here you're a liar
well I'm getting [__] tired of this
Owen please don't let me forget the star
attraction here shooting ballons or
excuse me I'm sorry I got this wrong
actually this is Hootin bow lose
another Santa Clause game hey this is
the same game as Xmas gift except this
time Santa's not evil and the graphics
are kind of better I guess
hold on a second is Xmas gift a bootleg
of Santa Claus a bootleg of a bootleg
inside a bootleg system
what kind of Christopher Nolan Inception
level [__] is this a long deep early oh
[Music]
okay next we got brave boy
at least the title screen looks decent
on this one and hey I'm a fan of
adventure I'm a brave boy
[Music]
not a brave enough point for this what
even is this
when a monster catches you in this game
you give it a bath
not that you would even be expected to
know that you're doing that because the
panel only shows up for a split second
when you get hit and then it's not even
you in the picture it's some blue head
kid in his underwear in a cape
well to elaborate by this game's logic
you have to avoid giving things baths
long enough to collect balls long enough
to unlock this sword in the center
that's encased and crystal this little
blue guy here can't catch you when
you're in the houses or tubes or
whatever this is but the big blue guy
can catch you from literally anywhere
even if the top of his head scrapes you
when he's outside of the building and
you're inside of the building he gets
you I'm on a [__] careful
wow that boy was so brave he sent
someone else to get the sword for him
magical kitchen surprise it's hell on
earth it's bouncing suicidal fruit a
spatula next okay this this one this one
is just called box's world
look at his bear look at this smug son
of a [__] he knows he knows he knows
what he's doing he's like yeah it's a
game called boxers well but you expect
Mary [__] Poppins you've seen the
rest of these and to top it off it's
just a clone of another game on the Sega
Genesis called shove it where you slide
boxes around yay yeah I think I remember
seeing this one on my ti-83 calculator
the vast majority of the games on this
system are puzzle games and most of them
are terrible
there were memory games stacking games
two of the games on here I would
classify as lawn care games yeah they
would be radish field and long perch aka
cutting the goddamned grass why would I
want to play a game where all I'm doing
his chores isn't that what games are
supposed to help us avoid doing
especially when there were other such
enticing titles on this console like
stub gamers I like to call it stacking
[__] cans all right come on what's
next I'm here for the ride at this point
I'm here till the fat lady sings all
right we got germ killer yeah well at
least it means well
[Music]
I'm just so sad I can't explain it
[Laughter]
next game it's called way out this game
better just be a loaded gun or a noose
you promised me this I really I have no
idea what's going on here do you she
goes right when it points left she goes
left for the points right there's no
logic there is no way out is there
that's what you're trying to tell me
isn't it I'm stuck here forever playing
you're barely functional games okay one
of the only playable games in here is
called extreme robot surprise though
it's just contra I'm getting uh I'm
getting a little worn out at this point
I think I gotta take a rest how about we
book a room at the old hotel and have a
nice man in and a nap
the bosses are really weird too they
just I don't even know what they are
what is that a Roomba cardiac valve oh
this is the best a finest flute length
forests are best in the city
Sagat oh boy I can't wait to see what's
up next we got boxing wersal I'm drawing
the line at boxing wersal where they got
Mike Tyson next to Dwayne the rock
Johnson are they different games are
they just one big game so they just you
know combine the sports then you can't
make me help help me I'm being held
against my will my addresses one two
three now this is the worst game I've
ever played
neck's oh yeah okay I mean that one
looks pretty cool I mean it's ancient
Chinese warfare how could we go wrong
just please give me this one just this
one it's it's awful
this whole thing is just filled with
ripoffs police skill it's Hogan's Alley
guard farm it's duck hunt Desert gunman
is wild gunman diamonds Arkanoid close
quarters Top Gun horrible area you got
that right
Table Tennis [__] pong all right one
last game let's give it a shot
star the final frontier
the very last game on the system could
this be the one to save them all
you
[Music]
you did it John boo like Michael Jackson
made it you're one with the cash man
now this can't be you played them all
John now you can become a bootleg master
yourself
no no no don't need your magic on me
[Music]
[Applause]
thanks for watching jontron if you like
audiobooks and good services consider
signing up for a free 30-day trial at
audible.com using my link audible.com
slash jontron you'll get a free
audiobook just for signing up and if you
don't like the service cancel anytime
for this month I recommend to you fifty
shades of gray oh crap that's not the
right book if you want to see more
jontron click these annotations
[Music]